---
title: PAPPL v1.0.1
category: pappl
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
comments: true
commentform: true
---

PAPPL v1.0.1 is a general bug fix release and is now available for download.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="https://github.com/michaelrsweet/pappl/releases/tag/v1.0.1">Download PAPPL v1.0.1</a>
<a class="btn btn-default" href="/pappl/index.html">Home Page</a>

<!--more-->

Changes in 1.0.1 include:

- Documentation updates (Issue #105)
- The `papplSystemLoadState` function did not load vendor attribute defaults
  correctly (Issue #103)
- Vendor options without "xxx-supported" attributes are no longer shown on the
  printing defaults page (Issue #104)
- Added support for Windows 10/Mopria clients that incorrectly convert the
  printer resource path to lowercase (Issue #106)
- The `papplSystemLoadState` function now calls the printer driver's status
  callback after loading the printer's attributes (Issue #107)
- Added additional error handling for memory allocations throughout the library
  (Issue #113)
- Fixed an issue with validation of custom media sizes (Issue #120)
- Partially-discovered SNMP printers would cause a crash (Issue #121)
- The "copies-supported" attribute was not report correctly.
- Job operations that targeted a non-existent job yielded the wrong status code.
- Printing a test page from the web interface did not trigger a reload to update
  the printer and job state.
- The TLS web page was hardcoded to use "/etc/cups" for the CUPS server root.
- Fixed file output when the job name contains a '/'.
- Updated 1-bit driver output to support "photo" dither array for high print
  quality.
- PAPPL now (re)creates the spool directory as needed.
- Coverity: Added missing NULL checks.
- Coverity: Fixed file descriptor leaks.
- Coverity: Fixed some locking issues.
- Coverity: Fixed printer-darkness-configured bug in `papplSystemSaveState`.
- Coverity: Fixed an error handling bug in the file printing code for the PWG
  test driver.
- Coverity: Removed dead code.

Enjoy!

