---
title: PAPPL v1.0.2
category: pappl
layout: post
permalink: /blog/:year-:month-:day-:title.html
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
comments: true
commentform: true
---

PAPPL v1.0.2 is a general bug fix release and is now available for download.

<a class="btn btn-primary" href="https://github.com/michaelrsweet/pappl/releases/tag/v1.0.2">Download PAPPL v1.0.2</a>
<a class="btn btn-default" href="/pappl/index.html">Home Page</a>

<!--more-->

Changes in 1.0.2 include:

- Documentation updates (Issue #140)
- The Set-Printer-Attributes operation now properly validates the values of
  "xxx-default" attributes (Issue #93)
- Changes to ready (loaded) media are now validated (Issue #94)
- The `papplSystemSetVersions` function now allows changes while the system is
  running (Issue #123)
- The printing defaults page no longer shows a media chooser when there is a
  single source (Issue #125)
- The DNS-SD support functions did not handle when the Avahi daemon is not
  running (Issue #129)
- The printing defaults web page now reports whether the media is borderless
  (Issue #138)
- The `papplClientGetForm` function did not support files larger than 64k
  (Issue #139)
- Deleting and adding a printer with the same name will cause a crash
  (Issue #141)
- Fixed a deadlock issue when calling the `papplPrinterSet...` functions from
  an iterator callback (Issue #143)
- The "Printing Defaults" web page did not show an error message if the
  defaults could not be validated (Issue #146)
- The `server` sub-command now enables TCP/IP connections using the default
  hostname; auto-started servers still disable TCP/IP connections by default
  (Issue #147)
- The `papplPrinterSetDriverDefaults` function did not validate the defaults
  against the actual driver data.
- The IPP interface no longer allows the Create-Printer operation for single
  queue applications.
- Stopping a printer application with `SIGTERM` now behaves the same as sending
  a Shutdown-System request.
- Added more unit tests to testpappl.
- Added better management of the USB and raw printing threads for each printer.
- Added better error reporting for USB printers.
- `papplDeviceOpen` did not copy the device ID callback.
- `papplDeviceList` and `papplDeviceOpen` did not send errors to stderr when a
  `NULL` error callback was specified.

Enjoy!

